README.md, before:

---
---

# SWAPUGC

**SWAPUGC**: **S**oft**w**are for **A**daptive **P**layback of Geotagged **U**ser-**G**enerated **C**ontent

This is the repository for *SWAPUGC*: a platform for creating applications that consume geotagged User-Generated Content (UGC).

---

GoTo:  
[About](#about)  
[Architecture Flow](#architecture-flow-of-the-client)  
[Demo](#demo)  
[Generate/Record Compatible Files](#generate-compatible-files)  
[Known Issues](#known-issues)  
[Links/Contact](#links)  

---

## About

The about page is [here](https://github.com/emmanouil/SWAPUGC/blob/master/ABOUT.md).

TL;DR:  
SWAPUGC is a platform for building web applications that consume geotagged UGC, in a syncrhonous and adaptive manner. Some key features:

* Support for **_mixed_ adaptation policies**. Stream adaptation can be based on spatial and/or cinematic and/or quality and/or system criteria.
* **Inter-stream synchronization** between the geospatial data and the video.
* **Inter-bundle synchronization** between the different recordings.
* **Extensibility** for other timed data types (e.g. network metrics).




## Architecture flow of the client

When the client is launched it does the following, in the corresponding order:
1. Load items from the _playlist.txt_, containing the _NAMEOFFILE_ of relevant recordings. And then, for each _NAMEOFFILE_ entry:
    1. Construct `globalSetIndex` where all the information/data on the recordings is placed
    2. Fetch the corresponding _NAMEOFFILE_`_DESCRIPTOR.json` file, containing information on the recordings about its timing, location of its video / location / orientation files.
    3. Fetch the corresponding _NAMEOFFILE_`_dash.mpd` file
2. Fetch _NAMEOFFILE_`_LOC.json` containing the location data (placed in the `globalSetIndex`)
3. Fetch _NAMEOFFILE_`_ORIENT.json` containing the orientation data (placed in the `globalSetIndex`)
4. With the acquired timed location/orientation pairs
    1. Place the markers on the map from the location/orientation pairs
    2. Add the cues for updating the markers
5. Fetch _NAMEOFFILE_`_dash.mpd` with the information on the segmented files (placed in the `globalSetIndex`)
6. Adjust MSE accordingly


## Demo

An online demo is available at [https://emmanouil.github.io/SWAPUGC/](https://emmanouil.github.io/SWAPUGC/). All the sample videos are encoded using H264, in 1080p at 2000kbps with 2s-long segments. Because we are simulating live scenario with dynamic switching, the buffer size is one segment, thus a stable high-speed connection is required; if such is not available, try running the demo locally.

To run a local demo:
1. [Download](https://github.com/emmanouil/SWAPUGC/archive/master.zip) and extract, or Clone (`git clone https://github.com/emmanouil/SWAPUGC.git`) the repository
2. Start an http server on the top dir of your local repository copy (e.g. download, copy and run [Mongoose](https://cesanta.com/binary.html), or `python -m http.server 8080` in the `SWAPUGC` folder)
3. Open your browser, and navigate to the location of `index.html` (e.g. http://localhost:8080/index.html - for port = 8080)

To run a remote demo, repeat the same process at your server, by replacing `localhost` with your server IP.

The demo is working better with Chrome, was tested and works with Firefox [3], and does *not* work with Microsoft Edge or IE [4].

## Generate Compatible Files

### UGC recorder (video + sensors)

A compatible UGC recorder Android application that can be used, is available [here](https://github.com/emmanouil/Spatiotemporal-Navigation-Recorder)

### Generate DASH-compatible Segmented Video Files

For the demo we used MP4Box of the [GPAC](gpac.io) suite, but other tools (like ffmpeg) should work.
With MP4Box, an example command to generate the mpd file [1] and the associated 2s-long segments would be [2]: 
`MP4Box -dash 2000 -profile live -closest -segment-name file_out_seg_ file_in.mp4` (for live profile - recommended)

`MP4Box -frag 2000 -dash 2000 -segment-name file_out_seg_ file_in.mp4` (for full profile)


NOTE: MP4Box does _not_ do any transcoding on the media files. For that, we used ffmpeg. An example command for encoding a video in x264 (audio aac @ 48kHz sample rate) with framerate = 30 fps and GOP size of 30 frames at 2Mbps bitrate, scaled with height = 1080px would be :
`ffmpeg.exe -i 20140325_121238.webm -r 30 -preset slow -vf scale=-1:1080 -c:v libx264 -b:v 2000k -movflags +faststart -sc_threshold 0 -keyint_min 30 -g 30 -c:a aac -ar 48000 20140325_121238.mp4`
(hint: if ffmpeg throws a scaling error you can use `scale=-2:1080`)

To analyze generated files you can use MP4Box as well (e.g. `MP4Box -info 20140325_121238.mp4` or `MP4Box -info 1 20140325_121238.mp4` for info only on the first track)


### Format XML sensor data (compatible with ICoSOLE dataset)

File `parser_single_file` located inside the `tool` dir will generate files, from XML files, as those used in the demo, taken by the [ICoSOLE](http://www.bbc.co.uk/rd/blog/2014-04-icosole-test-shoot) project (project repository [here](https://icosole.lab.vrt.be/viewer/))

#### Using The Parser

`parser_single_file` run with the name _NAMEOFFILE_ as an argument (without extension). For example, for a file ABC123.mp4 in the folder 'parsing', it should be executed as `python3 parser_single_file.py parsing/ABC123`. Each entry should have at least a video file and an associated EbuCore timing file (in xml)

#### Parser Output

1. _NAMEOFFILE_`_DESCRIPTOR.json`, containing information about the recording
2. _NAMEOFFILE_`_ORIENT.json`, containg the timestamped orientation samples of the recording
3. _NAMEOFFILE_`_LOC.json`, containg the timestamped location samples of the recording


### Platform-specific data used

#### Global Pairs Holder
global variable name: ```globalSetIndex```   
decription: an Array of recordings - the Location/Sensor Pair Objects of each recording are stored in the ```set``` field)
```javascript
    {
        id: "1234567_12345"
        index: 0
        set: Array[12]
        textFile: "OUT_1234567_12345.txt"
        textFileURL: "http://137.194.232.162:8080/parsing/OUT_1234567_12345.txt"
        videoFile: "OUT_1234567_12345.mp4"
    }
```
Other globals:  
```p``` - player information and settings  
```map``` map Object, created using the external API  
```markers``` references to the marker objects (when orientation available)  


#### Location and Sensor Pairs
decription: An Object holding Orientation and Location information for a POI
```JSON
    {
        "id": 1,
        "Sensor": {
            "Y": -0.083974324,
            "LocalTimestamp": 1466187515309,
            "Type": "ORIENTATION",
            "X": 2.5136049,
            "Z": -1.4016464
        },
        "Location": {
            "Time": 1466187920000,
            "LocalNanostamp": 27814219216825,
            "Longitude": 2.3506619881858737,
            "Latitude": 48.83000039044928,
            "Altitude": 111.77508694140864,
            "Bearing": 213.30880737304688,
            "Provider": "gps",
            "Accuracy": 16,
            "LocalTimestamp": 1466187515321,
            "Velocity": 1.0693713426589966
        }
    }
```
SWAPUGC should work without orientation data, receiving just the location updates. For example, when setting the markers, the default icon is used. This feature is implemented (incl. in the demo), but not actively tested.


#### Events implemented

We are using VTTCue for new events (e.g. location updates). VTTCue is part of [`WebVTT`](https://w3c.github.io/webvtt/) and is an extension of the [`text track cue`](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/media.html#text-track-cue). We set the event type by specifying the `id` attribute. We currently implemented three types:
 * `Event` **Generic Event** (e.g. video end) 
 * `OrientationUpdate` **Orientation Update** (currently using the X axis)
 * `LocationUpdate` **Location Update** (with the format `{"lat": 123, "lng": 123}`)



## Known Issues

[1] MP4Box does not play nice when generating the mpd of the files. More specifically, the "mimeType" and "codec" of the mpds are *extremely* unreliable. It is recommendaded to completely delete the "codecs" attribute and change "mimeType" to `mimeType="video/mp4"`.

[2] Even though in the official blog of GPAC recommends using the "-rap" option when creating files for dash using MP4Box, I strongly suggest to ommit it, since it can misalign the timing of the MSE.

[3] For this demo, we are using non-aligned segments. This is an edge non-standardized case scenario, but it is the only way to seamlessly switch between views. Chrome handles its bufffers as expected, but Firefox keeps the audio of all the fetched segments, even if newer have arrived, thus occasionally switching the video before the audio.

[4] Demo does not work on Microsoft Edge, because we are using VTTCues for the marker updates, [that are not supported by Edge](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/platform/issues/8120475/).

If an issue is not mentioned here, you can either contact [us](##links), or submit a [New Issue](https://github.com/emmanouil/SWAPUGC/issues).


## Links:
 * [contact](https://emmanouil.wp.imt.fr/contact/) , on github @emmanouil
 * [GPAC](https://www.gpac.io) , on github @gpac

Commit message:

edited documentation to consider multiple representation files

README.md, after:

---
---

# SWAPUGC

**SWAPUGC**: **S**oft**w**are for **A**daptive **P**layback of Geotagged **U**ser-**G**enerated **C**ontent

This is the repository for *SWAPUGC*: a platform for creating applications that consume geotagged User-Generated Content (UGC).

---

GoTo:  
[About](#about)  
[Architecture Flow](#architecture-flow-of-the-client)  
[Demo](#demo)  
[Generate/Record Compatible Files](#generate-compatible-files)  
[Known Issues](#known-issues)  
[Links/Contact](#links)  

---

## About

The about page is [here](https://github.com/emmanouil/SWAPUGC/blob/master/ABOUT.md).

TL;DR:  
SWAPUGC is a platform for building web applications that consume geotagged UGC, in a syncrhonous and adaptive manner. Some key features:

* Support for **_mixed_ adaptation policies**. Stream adaptation can be based on spatial and/or cinematic and/or quality and/or system criteria.
* **Inter-stream synchronization** between the geospatial data and the video.
* **Inter-bundle synchronization** between the different recordings.
* **Extensibility** for other timed data types (e.g. network metrics).




## Architecture flow of the client

When the client is launched it does the following, in the corresponding order:
1. Load items from the _playlist.txt_, containing the _NAMEOFFILE_ of relevant recordings. And then, for each _NAMEOFFILE_ entry:
    1. Construct `globalSetIndex` where all the information/data on the recordings is placed
    2. Fetch the corresponding _NAMEOFFILE_`_DESCRIPTOR.json` file, containing information on the recordings about its timing, location of its video / location / orientation files.
    3. Fetch the corresponding _NAMEOFFILE_`_dash.mpd` file
2. Fetch _NAMEOFFILE_`_LOC.json` containing the location data (placed in the `globalSetIndex`)
3. Fetch _NAMEOFFILE_`_ORIENT.json` containing the orientation data (placed in the `globalSetIndex`)
4. With the acquired timed location/orientation pairs
    1. Place the markers on the map from the location/orientation pairs
    2. Add the cues for updating the markers
5. Fetch _NAMEOFFILE_`_dash.mpd` with the information on the segmented files (placed in the `globalSetIndex`)
6. Adjust MSE accordingly


## Demo

An online demo is available at [https://emmanouil.github.io/SWAPUGC/](https://emmanouil.github.io/SWAPUGC/). All the sample videos are encoded using H264, in 1080p at 2000kbps with 2s-long segments. Because we are simulating live scenario with dynamic switching, the buffer size is one segment, thus a stable high-speed connection is required; if such is not available, try running the demo locally.

To run a local demo:
1. [Download](https://github.com/emmanouil/SWAPUGC/archive/master.zip) and extract, or Clone (`git clone https://github.com/emmanouil/SWAPUGC.git`) the repository
2. Start an http server on the top dir of your local repository copy (e.g. download, copy and run [Mongoose](https://cesanta.com/binary.html), or `python -m http.server 8080` in the `SWAPUGC` folder)
3. Open your browser, and navigate to the location of `index.html` (e.g. http://localhost:8080/index.html - for port = 8080)

To run a remote demo, repeat the same process at your server, by replacing `localhost` with your server IP.

The demo is working better with Chrome, was tested and works with Firefox [3], and does *not* work with Microsoft Edge or IE [4].

## Generate Compatible Files

### UGC recorder (video + sensors)

A compatible UGC recorder Android application that can be used, is available [here](https://github.com/emmanouil/Spatiotemporal-Navigation-Recorder)

### Generate DASH-compatible Segmented Video Files

For the demo we used MP4Box of the [GPAC](gpac.io) suite, but other tools (like ffmpeg) should work.
With MP4Box, an example command to generate the mpd file [1] and the associated 2s-long segments would be [2]: 
`MP4Box -dash 2000 -profile live -closest -segment-name file_out_seg_ file_in.mp4` (for live profile - recommended)

`MP4Box -frag 2000 -dash 2000 -segment-name file_out_seg_ file_in.mp4` (for full profile)


SWAPUGC also supports multiple representations that can be generated as following (example with three qualities):
`MP4Box -dash 2000 -profile live -closest -segment-name %s_seg_ file_in_720p_1800k.mp4 file_in_480p_800k.mp4 file_in_240p_400k.mp4`


NOTE: MP4Box does _not_ do any transcoding on the media files. For that, we used ffmpeg. An example command for encoding a video in x264 (audio aac @ 48kHz sample rate) with framerate = 30 fps and GOP size of 30 frames at 2Mbps bitrate, scaled with height = 1080px would be :
`ffmpeg.exe -i 20140325_121238.webm -r 30 -preset slow -vf scale=-1:1080 -c:v libx264 -b:v 2000k -movflags +faststart -sc_threshold 0 -keyint_min 30 -g 30 -c:a aac -ar 48000 20140325_121238.mp4`
(hint: if ffmpeg throws a scaling error you can use `scale=-2:1080`)

To analyze generated files you can use MP4Box as well (e.g. `MP4Box -info 20140325_121238.mp4` or `MP4Box -info 1 20140325_121238.mp4` for info only on the first track)


### Format XML sensor data (compatible with ICoSOLE dataset)

File `parser_single_file` located inside the `tool` dir will generate files, from XML files, as those used in the demo, taken by the [ICoSOLE](http://www.bbc.co.uk/rd/blog/2014-04-icosole-test-shoot) project (project repository [here](https://icosole.lab.vrt.be/viewer/))

#### Using The Parser

`parser_single_file` run with the name _NAMEOFFILE_ as an argument (without extension). For example, for a file ABC123.mp4 in the folder 'parsing', it should be executed as `python3 parser_single_file.py parsing/ABC123`. Each entry should have at least a video file and an associated EbuCore timing file (in xml)

#### Parser Output

1. _NAMEOFFILE_`_DESCRIPTOR.json`, containing information about the recording
2. _NAMEOFFILE_`_ORIENT.json`, containg the timestamped orientation samples of the recording
3. _NAMEOFFILE_`_LOC.json`, containg the timestamped location samples of the recording


### Platform-specific data used

#### Global Pairs Holder
global variable name: ```globalSetIndex```   
decription: an Array of recordings - the Location/Sensor Pair Objects of each recording are stored in the ```set``` field)
```javascript
    {
        id: "1234567_12345"
        index: 0
        set: Array[12]
        textFile: "OUT_1234567_12345.txt"
        textFileURL: "http://137.194.232.162:8080/parsing/OUT_1234567_12345.txt"
        videoFile: "OUT_1234567_12345.mp4"
    }
```
Other globals:  
```p``` - player information and settings  
```map``` map Object, created using the external API  
```markers``` references to the marker objects (when orientation available)  


#### Location and Sensor Pairs
decription: An Object holding Orientation and Location information for a POI
```JSON
    {
        "id": 1,
        "Sensor": {
            "Y": -0.083974324,
            "LocalTimestamp": 1466187515309,
            "Type": "ORIENTATION",
            "X": 2.5136049,
            "Z": -1.4016464
        },
        "Location": {
            "Time": 1466187920000,
            "LocalNanostamp": 27814219216825,
            "Longitude": 2.3506619881858737,
            "Latitude": 48.83000039044928,
            "Altitude": 111.77508694140864,
            "Bearing": 213.30880737304688,
            "Provider": "gps",
            "Accuracy": 16,
            "LocalTimestamp": 1466187515321,
            "Velocity": 1.0693713426589966
        }
    }
```
SWAPUGC should work without orientation data, receiving just the location updates. For example, when setting the markers, the default icon is used. This feature is implemented (incl. in the demo), but not actively tested.


#### Events implemented

We are using VTTCue for new events (e.g. location updates). VTTCue is part of [`WebVTT`](https://w3c.github.io/webvtt/) and is an extension of the [`text track cue`](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/media.html#text-track-cue). We set the event type by specifying the `id` attribute. We currently implemented three types:
 * `Event` **Generic Event** (e.g. video end) 
 * `OrientationUpdate` **Orientation Update** (currently using the X axis)
 * `LocationUpdate` **Location Update** (with the format `{"lat": 123, "lng": 123}`)



## Known Issues

[1] MP4Box does not play nice when generating the mpd of the files. More specifically, the "mimeType" and "codec" of the mpds are *extremely* unreliable. It is recommendaded to completely delete the "codecs" attribute and change "mimeType" to `mimeType="video/mp4"`.

[2] Even though in the official blog of GPAC recommends using the "-rap" option when creating files for dash using MP4Box, I strongly suggest to ommit it, since it can misalign the timing of the MSE.

[3] For this demo, we are using non-aligned segments. This is an edge non-standardized case scenario, but it is the only way to seamlessly switch between views. Chrome handles its bufffers as expected, but Firefox keeps the audio of all the fetched segments, even if newer have arrived, thus occasionally switching the video before the audio.

[4] Demo does not work on Microsoft Edge, because we are using VTTCues for the marker updates, [that are not supported by Edge](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/platform/issues/8120475/).

If an issue is not mentioned here, you can either contact [us](##links), or submit a [New Issue](https://github.com/emmanouil/SWAPUGC/issues).


## Links:
 * [contact](https://emmanouil.wp.imt.fr/contact/) , on github @emmanouil
 * [GPAC](https://www.gpac.io) , on github @gpac
